So first thing when it comes to component
is one of the most basic techniques we all
learn when we first start
using vue is our props, right?
Because we want to be able to passing down
and define them at the component level.
And so here we have a basic nav
item.vue as a quick overview for
those who might be a little newer
to vue we have our script block on
the top that has the props of label.
And inside of our template,
we go ahead and use it inside of the href.
And we also use it as the actual text
that's rendered on the anchor element.
And so here, yep, and
then we have these two down here, okay.
So how that might work is if
we have like a Navbar.vue,
for example, that component that will
then pass down its label into the prop,
which goes ahead and
propagates our HTML accordingly.
So this should all be fairly familiar
to you if you already use props.
Now knowing those things you'll
see that we're using the props as
defined as an array.
And it's simply defined as like
the the label in this case.
And so for production level vue apps,
I would recommend just staying away
from defining props as an array.
And so is it like you should never use it?
No, it's not that you should never use it.
It's pretty good for
if you're just prototyping something and
just want something to get passed through.
But when it comes to scaling
your application and components,
a little bit more documentation is
important because actually right now if
you think about it label can
take basically anything, and
developers would have no
idea how to properly use it.
So here we have our problem actually
then define as the object syntax here.
So the props is an object that takes
basically different keys that provide
the actual props.
And so in this case,
you'll see there are three different
labels that are being sorry,
three different attributes that are being
appended to the label that we're defining.
The first of which is the actual type,
so in this case,
we want the label to actually be a string.
And then on top of that, on the prop,
you can also define whether or
not it's required or not.
And so with that,
what we're going to see here is that
by default is going to be false, right?
We're going to assume
most props are optional.
But otherwise when it comes
to the default state of it,
we actually can provide a value.
In this case,
we can provide a default value that then
basically whenever you don't pass a prop.
It will go ahead and
default to that current value.
So this is actually fairly standard I've
seen on a lot of different enterprise
level apps where we go ahead and
it makes sense, right?
You've defined the type you've
defined that is required, and
you've defined that there's a default.
But if we think about what the purpose
of each one is, since you already have
a default It's not really necessary
to actually have the required.
And in fact, I would call it a redundancy.
So going forward, I would say,
as you're writing out your prompts,
if you have a default value,
no need to define that it's required
because it will always have a value.
Otherwise, vice versa, If you don't have a
default, then it should be required true.
So this should shorten your prop
definitions a little bit because instead
of two, three lines, now you have two.
The other thing that most people don't
know is that props can actually take
a custom validator function.
So we can teach you that with props,
as long as you define the validator, it is
basically a function that will provide you
the value that's being passed down, and it
will basically check whether or not this
is, will try like a true and false value.
That will then actually air
out inside the console.
And so this is pretty cool because now
even if you're not using TypeScript, for
example, you can basically add like
more specific typing to your props.
So in this particular case for our label
in this, the product only wants us to be
able to do like home and about like,
you should not take anything else.
So using our validator function,
we can actually say that hey in this
array of valid values, go ahead and
check against that, and if it exists
inside the valid value, we're good to go.
Otherwise, go ahead and
flag an error for that.
And so yeah, this is one of those things
that a lot of people don't realize exists,
but is super valuable as far as providing
additional documentation for your
developers as they use things and just
making sure that they work as expected